In this course, Course Six, we're going to
be discussing the Windows registry.
An overview of this course,
we're going to understand the purpose and
structure of the files that
make up the Windows registry.
We're going to identify and
extract important data from both
the live and the non live registry.
We're going to learn how to interpret and
understand the data that we
find in the Windows registry.
We're going to learn to locate
the registry files within the computer's
operating system.
We're going to examine
the registry files and
locate data significant
to the investigation.
In our first module, we're going to talk
about the registry overview and history.
Microsoft defines the Windows
registry as a hierarchical database
designed to store information that is
necessary to configure the system for
one or more users, applications,
and hardware devices.
The Windows registry replaced
the old configuration and
initialization ini files used in older
versions of Windows prior to Windows NT.
The registry, in my opinion,
is perhaps one of the most overlooked
treasure trove of forensic
artifacts on a Windows system.
It is a great source of both evidence and
supporting evidence.
It's useful in validating our findings
throughout the investigation.
Some of the artifacts that are contained
within the registry are user information,
information specific to each user
on the system, system information,
and application specific information.
The registry also acts as a sort of
log file as it does track the system
changes and user created changes
are also often tracked in the registry.
The type of case that you're
investigating will determine
the type of information
that you're looking for.
And this is true not only in the registry,
but throughout the entire
Windows file system.
So if you're looking at a fraud or
harassment or child exploitation case,
each of these cases, you'll be looking for
different types of information.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about the structure of
the Windows registry and
what makes up the Windows registry.